<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-5" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</span>
			</h2>
			<section id="scene-5-1" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Britain. The Roman camp.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter POSTHUMUS, with a bloody handkerchief</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Yea, bloody cloth, I'll keep thee, for I wish'd</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou shouldst be colour'd thus. You married ones,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If each of you should take this course, how many</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Must murder wives much better than themselves</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For wrying but a little! O Pisanio!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Every good servant does not all commands:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>No bond but to do just ones. Gods! if you</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Should have ta'en vengeance on my faults, I never</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Had lived to put on this: so had you saved</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The noble Imogen to repent, and struck</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Me, wretch more worth your vengeance. But, alack,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You snatch some hence for little faults; that's love,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To have them fall no more: you some permit</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To second ills with ills, each elder worse,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And make them dread it, to the doers' thrift.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But Imogen is your own: do your best wills,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And make me blest to obey! I am brought hither</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Among the Italian gentry, and to fight</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Against my lady's kingdom: 'tis enough</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That, Britain, I have kill'd thy mistress; peace!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I'll give no wound to thee. Therefore, good heavens,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hear patiently my purpose: I'll disrobe me</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of these Italian weeds and suit myself</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As does a Briton peasant: so I'll fight</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Against the part I come with; so I'll die</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For thee, O Imogen, even for whom my life</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is every breath a death; and thus, unknown,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Pitied nor hated, to the face of peril</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Myself I'll dedicate. Let me make men know</span>
									<br/>
									<span>More valour in me than my habits show.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Gods, put the strength o' the Leonati in me!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To shame the guise o' the world, I will begin</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The fashion, less without and more within. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-5-2" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Field of battle between the British and Roman camps.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter, from one side, LUCIUS, IACHIMO, and the Roman Army: from the other side, the British Army; POSTHUMUS LEONATUS following, like a poor soldier. They march over and go out. Then enter again, in skirmish, IACHIMO and POSTHUMUS LEONATUS he vanquisheth and disarmeth IACHIMO, and then leaves him</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IACHIMO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The heaviness and guilt within my bosom</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Takes off my manhood: I have belied a lady,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The princess of this country, and the air on't</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Revengingly enfeebles me; or could this carl,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A very drudge of nature's, have subdued me</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In my profession? Knighthoods and honours, borne</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As I wear mine, are titles but of scorn.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If that thy gentry, Britain, go before</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This lout as he exceeds our lords, the odds</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is that we scarce are men and you are gods. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The battle continues; the Britons fly; CYMBELINE is taken: then enter, to his rescue, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BELARIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Stand, stand! We have the advantage of the ground;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The lane is guarded: nothing routs us but</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The villany of our fears.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr class="together">
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GUIDERIUS<br/>
							ARVIRAGUS</td>
							<td>Stand, stand, and fight!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS, and seconds the Britons: they rescue CYMBELINE, and exeunt. Then re-enter LUCIUS, and IACHIMO, with IMOGEN</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CAIUS LUCIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Away, boy, from the troops, and save thyself;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For friends kill friends, and the disorder's such</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As war were hoodwink'd.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IACHIMO</td>
							<td>'Tis their fresh supplies.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CAIUS LUCIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>It is a day turn'd strangely: or betimes</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let's reinforce, or fly. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-5-3" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Another part of the field.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and a British Lord</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td>Camest thou from where they made the stand?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I did.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Though you, it seems, come from the fliers.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td>I did.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>No blame be to you, sir; for all was lost,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But that the heavens fought: the king himself</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of his wings destitute, the army broken,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And but the backs of Britons seen, all flying</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Through a straight lane; the enemy full-hearted,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Lolling the tongue with slaughtering, having work</span>
									<br/>
									<span>More plentiful than tools to do't, struck down</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Some mortally, some slightly touch'd, some falling</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Merely through fear; that the straight pass was damm'd</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With dead men hurt behind, and cowards living</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To die with lengthen'd shame.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td>Where was this lane?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Close by the battle, ditch'd, and wall'd with turf;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which gave advantage to an ancient soldier,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>An honest one, I warrant; who deserved</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So long a breeding as his white beard came to,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In doing this for's country: athwart the lane,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He, with two striplings-lads more like to run</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The country base than to commit such slaughter</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With faces fit for masks, or rather fairer</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than those for preservation cased, or shame--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Made good the passage; cried to those that fled,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Our Britain s harts die flying, not our men:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To darkness fleet souls that fly backwards. Stand;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or we are Romans and will give you that</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Like beasts which you shun beastly, and may save,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But to look back in frown: stand, stand.'</span>
									<br/>
									<span>These three,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Three thousand confident, in act as many--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For three performers are the file when all</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The rest do nothing--with this word 'Stand, stand,'</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Accommodated by the place, more charming</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With their own nobleness, which could have turn'd</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A distaff to a lance, gilded pale looks,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Part shame, part spirit renew'd; that some, turn'd coward</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But by example--O, a sin in war,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Damn'd in the first beginners!--gan to look</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The way that they did, and to grin like lions</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon the pikes o' the hunters. Then began</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A stop i' the chaser, a retire, anon</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A rout, confusion thick; forthwith they fly</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Chickens, the way which they stoop'd eagles; slaves,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The strides they victors made: and now our cowards,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Like fragments in hard voyages, became</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The life o' the need: having found the backdoor open</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of the unguarded hearts, heavens, how they wound!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Some slain before; some dying; some their friends</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O'er borne i' the former wave: ten, chased by one,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Are now each one the slaughter-man of twenty:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Those that would die or ere resist are grown</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The mortal bugs o' the field.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>This was strange chance</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A narrow lane, an old man, and two boys.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Nay, do not wonder at it: you are made</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Rather to wonder at the things you hear</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than to work any. Will you rhyme upon't,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And vent it for a mockery? Here is one:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Two boys, an old man twice a boy, a lane,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Preserved the Britons, was the Romans' bane.'</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td>Nay, be not angry, sir.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>'Lack, to what end?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who dares not stand his foe, I'll be his friend;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For if he'll do as he is made to do,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I know he'll quickly fly my friendship too.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You have put me into rhyme.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lord</td>
							<td>Farewell; you're angry.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Still going? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit Lord</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>This is a lord! O noble misery,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To be i' the field, and ask 'what news?' of me!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To-day how many would have given their honours</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To have saved their carcasses! took heel to do't,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And yet died too! I, in mine own woe charm'd,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Could not find death where I did hear him groan,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nor feel him where he struck: being an ugly monster,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Tis strange he hides him in fresh cups, soft beds,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sweet words; or hath more ministers than we</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That draw his knives i' the war. Well, I will find him</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For being now a favourer to the Briton,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>No more a Briton, I have resumed again</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The part I came in: fight I will no more,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But yield me to the veriest hind that shall</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Once touch my shoulder. Great the slaughter is</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here made by the Roman; great the answer be</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Britons must take. For me, my ransom's death;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On either side I come to spend my breath;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which neither here I'll keep nor bear again,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But end it by some means for Imogen.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter two British Captains and Soldiers</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Captain</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Great Jupiter be praised! Lucius is taken.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Tis thought the old man and his sons were angels.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Captain</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>There was a fourth man, in a silly habit,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That gave the affront with them.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Captain</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>So 'tis reported:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But none of 'em can be found. Stand! who's there?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A Roman,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who had not now been drooping here, if seconds</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Had answer'd him.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Captain</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Lay hands on him; a dog!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A leg of Rome shall not return to tell</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What crows have peck'd them here. He brags his service</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As if he were of note: bring him to the king.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter CYMBELINE, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, ARVIRAGUS, PISANIO, Soldiers, Attendants, and Roman Captives. The Captains present POSTHUMUS LEONATUS to CYMBELINE, who delivers him over to a Gaoler: then exeunt omnes</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-5-4" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</span>
				</h3>
				<p>A British prison.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and two Gaolers</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Gaoler</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>You shall not now be stol'n, you have locks upon you;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So graze as you find pasture.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Gaoler</td>
							<td>Ay, or a stomach. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt Gaolers</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Most welcome, bondage! for thou art away,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>think, to liberty: yet am I better</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than one that's sick o' the gout; since he had rather</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Groan so in perpetuity than be cured</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By the sure physician, death, who is the key</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To unbar these locks. My conscience, thou art fetter'd</span>
									<br/>
									<span>More than my shanks and wrists: you good gods, give me</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The penitent instrument to pick that bolt,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Then, free for ever! Is't enough I am sorry?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So children temporal fathers do appease;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Gods are more full of mercy. Must I repent?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I cannot do it better than in gyves,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Desired more than constrain'd: to satisfy,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If of my freedom 'tis the main part, take</span>
									<br/>
									<span>No stricter render of me than my all.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I know you are more clement than vile men,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who of their broken debtors take a third,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A sixth, a tenth, letting them thrive again</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On their abatement: that's not my desire:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For Imogen's dear life take mine; and though</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Tis not so dear, yet 'tis a life; you coin'd it:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Tween man and man they weigh not every stamp;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Though light, take pieces for the figure's sake:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You rather mine, being yours: and so, great powers,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If you will take this audit, take this life,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And cancel these cold bonds. O Imogen!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I'll speak to thee in silence. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sleeps</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Solemn music. Enter, as in an apparition, SICILIUS LEONATUS, father to Posthumus Leonatus, an old man, attired like a warrior; leading in his hand an ancient matron, his wife, and mother to Posthumus Leonatus, with music before them: then, after other music, follow the two young Leonati, brothers to Posthumus Leonatus, with wounds as they died in the wars. They circle Posthumus Leonatus round, as he lies sleeping</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sicilius Leonatus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>No more, thou thunder-master, show</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thy spite on mortal flies:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With Mars fall out, with Juno chide,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That thy adulteries</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Rates and revenges.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath my poor boy done aught but well,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whose face I never saw?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I died whilst in the womb he stay'd</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Attending nature's law:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whose father then, as men report</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou orphans' father art,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou shouldst have been, and shielded him</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From this earth-vexing smart.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mother</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Lucina lent not me her aid,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But took me in my throes;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That from me was Posthumus ript,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Came crying 'mongst his foes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A thing of pity!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sicilius Leonatus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Great nature, like his ancestry,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Moulded the stuff so fair,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That he deserved the praise o' the world,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As great Sicilius' heir.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Brother</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>When once he was mature for man,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In Britain where was he</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That could stand up his parallel;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or fruitful object be</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In eye of Imogen, that best</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Could deem his dignity?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mother</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>With marriage wherefore was he mock'd,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To be exiled, and thrown</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From Leonati seat, and cast</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From her his dearest one,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sweet Imogen?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sicilius Leonatus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Why did you suffer Iachimo,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Slight thing of Italy,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To taint his nobler heart and brain</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With needless jealosy;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And to become the geck and scorn</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O' th' other's villany?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Brother</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>For this from stiller seats we came,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our parents and us twain,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That striking in our country's cause</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Fell bravely and were slain,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our fealty and Tenantius' right</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With honour to maintain.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Brother</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Like hardiment Posthumus hath</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To Cymbeline perform'd:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Then, Jupiter, thou king of gods,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Why hast thou thus adjourn'd</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The graces for his merits due,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Being all to dolours turn'd?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sicilius Leonatus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thy crystal window ope; look out;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>No longer exercise</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon a valiant race thy harsh</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And potent injuries.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mother</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Since, Jupiter, our son is good,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Take off his miseries.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sicilius Leonatus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Peep through thy marble mansion; help;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or we poor ghosts will cry</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To the shining synod of the rest</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Against thy deity.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr class="together">
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Brother<br/>
							Second Brother</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Help, Jupiter; or we appeal,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And from thy justice fly. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Jupiter descends in thunder and lightning, sitting upon an eagle: he throws a thunderbolt. The Apparitions fall on their knees</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jupiter</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>No more, you petty spirits of region low,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Offend our hearing; hush! How dare you ghosts</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Accuse the thunderer, whose bolt, you know,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sky-planted batters all rebelling coasts?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Poor shadows of Elysium, hence, and rest</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon your never-withering banks of flowers:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be not with mortal accidents opprest;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>No care of yours it is; you know 'tis ours.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whom best I love I cross; to make my gift,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The more delay'd, delighted. Be content;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your low-laid son our godhead will uplift:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His comforts thrive, his trials well are spent.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our Jovial star reign'd at his birth, and in</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our temple was he married. Rise, and fade.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He shall be lord of lady Imogen,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And happier much by his affliction made.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This tablet lay upon his breast, wherein</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our pleasure his full fortune doth confine:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>and so, away: no further with your din</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Express impatience, lest you stir up mine.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Mount, eagle, to my palace crystalline. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Ascends</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sicilius Leonatus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He came in thunder; his celestial breath</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Was sulphurous to smell: the holy eagle</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Stoop'd as to foot us: his ascension is</span>
									<br/>
									<span>More sweet than our blest fields: his royal bird</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Prunes the immortal wing and cloys his beak,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As when his god is pleased.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">All</td>
							<td>Thanks, Jupiter!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sicilius Leonatus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The marble pavement closes, he is enter'd</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His radiant root. Away! and, to be blest,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let us with care perform his great behest. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The Apparitions vanish</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus Leonatus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Waking</i> Sleep, thou hast been a grandsire, and begot</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A father to me; and thou hast created</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A mother and two brothers: but, O scorn!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Gone! they went hence so soon as they were born:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And so I am awake. Poor wretches that depend</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On greatness' favour dream as I have done,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wake and find nothing. But, alas, I swerve:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Many dream not to find, neither deserve,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And yet are steep'd in favours: so am I,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That have this golden chance and know not why.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What fairies haunt this ground? A book? O rare one!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be not, as is our fangled world, a garment</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nobler than that it covers: let thy effects</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So follow, to be most unlike our courtiers,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As good as promise.</span>
									<br/>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Reads</i> 'When as a lion's whelp shall, to himself unknown, without seeking find, and be embraced by a piece of tender air; and when from a stately cedar shall be lopped branches, which, being dead many years, shall after revive, be jointed to the old stock and freshly grow; then shall Posthumus end his miseries, Britain be fortunate and flourish in peace and plenty.'</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Tis still a dream, or else such stuff as madmen</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Tongue and brain not; either both or nothing;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or senseless speaking or a speaking such</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As sense cannot untie. Be what it is,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The action of my life is like it, which</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I'll keep, if but for sympathy.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Re-enter First Gaoler</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Gaoler</td>
							<td>Come, sir, are you ready for death?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td>Over-roasted rather; ready long ago.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Gaoler</td>
							<td>Hanging is the word, sir: if you be ready for that, you are well cooked.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td>So, if I prove a good repast to the spectators, the dish pays the shot.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Gaoler</td>
							<td>A heavy reckoning for you, sir. But the comfort is, you shall be called to no more payments, fear no more tavern-bills; which are often the sadness of parting, as the procuring of mirth: you come in flint for want of meat, depart reeling with too much drink; sorry that you have paid too much, and sorry that you are paid too much; purse and brain both empty; the brain the heavier for being too light, the purse too light, being drawn of heaviness: of this contradiction you shall now be quit. O, the charity of a penny cord! It sums up thousands in a trice: you have no true debitor and creditor but it; of what's past, is, and to come, the discharge: your neck, sir, is pen, book and counters; so the acquittance follows.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td>I am merrier to die than thou art to live.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Gaoler</td>
							<td>Indeed, sir, he that sleeps feels not the tooth-ache: but a man that were to sleep your sleep, and a hangman to help him to bed, I think he would change places with his officer; for, look you, sir, you know not which way you shall go.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td>Yes, indeed do I, fellow.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Gaoler</td>
							<td>Your death has eyes in 's head then; I have not seen him so pictured: you must either be directed by some that take upon them to know, or do take upon yourself that which I am sure you do not know, or jump the after inquiry on your own peril: and how you shall speed in your journey's end, I think you'll never return to tell one.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td>I tell thee, fellow, there are none want eyes to direct them the way I am going, but such as wink and will not use them.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Gaoler</td>
							<td>What an infinite mock is this, that a man should have the best use of eyes to see the way of blindness! I am sure hanging's the way of winking.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter a Messenger</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Messenger</td>
							<td>Knock off his manacles; bring your prisoner to the king.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td>Thou bring'st good news; I am called to be made free.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Gaoler</td>
							<td>I'll be hang'd then.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td>Thou shalt be then freer than a gaoler; no bolts for the dead. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt POSTHUMUS LEONATUS and Messenger</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Gaoler</td>
							<td>Unless a man would marry a gallows and beget young gibbets, I never saw one so prone. Yet, on my conscience, there are verier knaves desire to live, for all he be a Roman: and there be some of them too that die against their wills; so should I, if I were one. I would we were all of one mind, and one mind good; O, there were desolation of gaolers and gallowses! I speak against my present profit, but my wish hath a preferment in 't. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt</i></td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-5-5" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Cymbeline's tent.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter CYMBELINE, BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, ARVIRAGUS, PISANIO, Lords, Officers, and Attendants</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Stand by my side, you whom the gods have made</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Preservers of my throne. Woe is my heart</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That the poor soldier that so richly fought,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whose rags shamed gilded arms, whose naked breast</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Stepp'd before larges of proof, cannot be found:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He shall be happy that can find him, if</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our grace can make him so.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BELARIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I never saw</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Such noble fury in so poor a thing;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Such precious deeds in one that promises nought</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But beggary and poor looks.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td>No tidings of him?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PISANIO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He hath been search'd among the dead and living,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But no trace of him.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>To my grief, I am</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The heir of his reward; <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To BELARIUS, GUIDERIUS, and ARVIRAGUS</i> which I will add</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To you, the liver, heart and brain of Britain,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By whom I grant she lives. 'Tis now the time</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To ask of whence you are. Report it.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BELARIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In Cambria are we born, and gentlemen:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Further to boast were neither true nor modest,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Unless I add, we are honest.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Bow your knees.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Arise my knights o' the battle: I create you</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Companions to our person and will fit you</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With dignities becoming your estates.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter CORNELIUS and Ladies</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>There's business in these faces. Why so sadly</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Greet you our victory? you look like Romans,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And not o' the court of Britain.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CORNELIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Hail, great king!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To sour your happiness, I must report</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The queen is dead.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Who worse than a physician</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Would this report become? But I consider,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By medicine life may be prolong'd, yet death</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will seize the doctor too. How ended she?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CORNELIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>With horror, madly dying, like her life,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which, being cruel to the world, concluded</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Most cruel to herself. What she confess'd</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I will report, so please you: these her women</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Can trip me, if I err; who with wet cheeks</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Were present when she finish'd.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td>Prithee, say.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CORNELIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>First, she confess'd she never loved you, only</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Affected greatness got by you, not you:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Married your royalty, was wife to your place;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Abhorr'd your person.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>She alone knew this;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And, but she spoke it dying, I would not</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Believe her lips in opening it. Proceed.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CORNELIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Your daughter, whom she bore in hand to love</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With such integrity, she did confess</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Was as a scorpion to her sight; whose life,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But that her flight prevented it, she had</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ta'en off by poison.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O most delicate fiend!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who is 't can read a woman? Is there more?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CORNELIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>More, sir, and worse. She did confess she had</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For you a mortal mineral; which, being took,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Should by the minute feed on life and lingering</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By inches waste you: in which time she purposed,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By watching, weeping, tendance, kissing, to</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O'ercome you with her show, and in time,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When she had fitted you with her craft, to work</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Her son into the adoption of the crown:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But, failing of her end by his strange absence,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Grew shameless-desperate; open'd, in despite</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of heaven and men, her purposes; repented</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The evils she hatch'd were not effected; so</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Despairing died.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td>Heard you all this, her women?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Lady</td>
							<td>We did, so please your highness.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Mine eyes</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Were not in fault, for she was beautiful;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Mine ears, that heard her flattery; nor my heart,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That thought her like her seeming; it had been vicious</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To have mistrusted her: yet, O my daughter!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That it was folly in me, thou mayst say,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And prove it in thy feeling. Heaven mend all!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter LUCIUS, IACHIMO, the Soothsayer, and other Roman Prisoners, guarded; POSTHUMUS LEONATUS behind, and IMOGEN</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thou comest not, Caius, now for tribute that</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The Britons have razed out, though with the loss</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of many a bold one; whose kinsmen have made suit</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That their good souls may be appeased with slaughter</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of you their captives, which ourself have granted:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So think of your estate.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CAIUS LUCIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Consider, sir, the chance of war: the day</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Was yours by accident; had it gone with us,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We should not, when the blood was cool, have threaten'd</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our prisoners with the sword. But since the gods</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will have it thus, that nothing but our lives</span>
									<br/>
									<span>May be call'd ransom, let it come: sufficeth</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A Roman with a Roman's heart can suffer:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Augustus lives to think on't: and so much</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For my peculiar care. This one thing only</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I will entreat; my boy, a Briton born,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let him be ransom'd: never master had</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A page so kind, so duteous, diligent,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So tender over his occasions, true,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So feat, so nurse-like: let his virtue join</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With my request, which I make bold your highness</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Cannot deny; he hath done no Briton harm,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Though he have served a Roman: save him, sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And spare no blood beside.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I have surely seen him:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His favour is familiar to me. Boy,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou hast look'd thyself into my grace,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And art mine own. I know not why, wherefore,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To say 'live, boy:' ne'er thank thy master; live:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And ask of Cymbeline what boon thou wilt,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Fitting my bounty and thy state, I'll give it;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yea, though thou do demand a prisoner,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The noblest ta'en.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IMOGEN</td>
							<td>I humbly thank your highness.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CAIUS LUCIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I do not bid thee beg my life, good lad;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And yet I know thou wilt.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IMOGEN</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>No, no: alack,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>There's other work in hand: I see a thing</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Bitter to me as death: your life, good master,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Must shuffle for itself.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CAIUS LUCIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The boy disdains me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He leaves me, scorns me: briefly die their joys</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That place them on the truth of girls and boys.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Why stands he so perplex'd?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>What wouldst thou, boy?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I love thee more and more: think more and more</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What's best to ask. Know'st him thou look'st on? speak,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wilt have him live? Is he thy kin? thy friend?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IMOGEN</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He is a Roman; no more kin to me</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than I to your highness; who, being born your vassal,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Am something nearer.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td>Wherefore eyest him so?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IMOGEN</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I'll tell you, sir, in private, if you please</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To give me hearing.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Ay, with all my heart,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And lend my best attention. What's thy name?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IMOGEN</td>
							<td>Fidele, sir.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thou'rt my good youth, my page;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I'll be thy master: walk with me; speak freely. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">CYMBELINE and IMOGEN converse apart</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BELARIUS</td>
							<td>Is not this boy revived from death?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ARVIRAGUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>One sand another</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Not more resembles that sweet rosy lad</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who died, and was Fidele. What think you?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GUIDERIUS</td>
							<td>The same dead thing alive.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BELARIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Peace, peace! see further; he eyes us not; forbear;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Creatures may be alike: were 't he, I am sure</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He would have spoke to us.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GUIDERIUS</td>
							<td>But we saw him dead.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BELARIUS</td>
							<td>Be silent; let's see further.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PISANIO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside</i> It is my mistress:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Since she is living, let the time run on</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To good or bad. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">CYMBELINE and IMOGEN come forward</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Come, stand thou by our side;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Make thy demand aloud. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To IACHIMO</i> Sir, step you forth;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Give answer to this boy, and do it freely;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or, by our greatness and the grace of it,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which is our honour, bitter torture shall</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Winnow the truth from falsehood. On, speak to him.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IMOGEN</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>My boon is, that this gentleman may render</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of whom he had this ring.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside</i> What's that to him?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>That diamond upon your finger, say</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How came it yours?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IACHIMO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thou'lt torture me to leave unspoken that</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which, to be spoke, would torture thee.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td>How! me?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IACHIMO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I am glad to be constrain'd to utter that</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which torments me to conceal. By villany</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I got this ring: 'twas Leonatus' jewel;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whom thou didst banish; and--which more may grieve thee,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As it doth me--a nobler sir ne'er lived</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Twixt sky and ground. Wilt thou hear more, my lord?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td>All that belongs to this.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IACHIMO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>That paragon, thy daughter,--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For whom my heart drops blood, and my false spirits</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Quail to remember--Give me leave; I faint.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>My daughter! what of her? Renew thy strength:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I had rather thou shouldst live while nature will</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than die ere I hear more: strive, man, and speak.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IACHIMO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Upon a time,--unhappy was the clock</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That struck the hour!--it was in Rome,--accursed</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The mansion where!--'twas at a feast,--O, would</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our viands had been poison'd, or at least</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Those which I heaved to head!--the good Posthumus--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What should I say? he was too good to be</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where ill men were; and was the best of all</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Amongst the rarest of good ones,--sitting sadly,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hearing us praise our loves of Italy</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For beauty that made barren the swell'd boast</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of him that best could speak, for feature, laming</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The shrine of Venus, or straight-pight Minerva.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Postures beyond brief nature, for condition,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A shop of all the qualities that man</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Loves woman for, besides that hook of wiving,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Fairness which strikes the eye--</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I stand on fire:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Come to the matter.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IACHIMO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>All too soon I shall,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Unless thou wouldst grieve quickly. This Posthumus,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Most like a noble lord in love and one</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That had a royal lover, took his hint;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And, not dispraising whom we praised,--therein</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He was as calm as virtue--he began</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His mistress' picture; which by his tongue being made,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And then a mind put in't, either our brags</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Were crack'd of kitchen-trolls, or his description</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Proved us unspeaking sots.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td>Nay, nay, to the purpose.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IACHIMO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Your daughter's chastity--there it begins.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He spake of her, as Dian had hot dreams,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And she alone were cold: whereat I, wretch,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Made scruple of his praise; and wager'd with him</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Pieces of gold 'gainst this which then he wore</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon his honour'd finger, to attain</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In suit the place of's bed and win this ring</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By hers and mine adultery. He, true knight,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>No lesser of her honour confident</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than I did truly find her, stakes this ring;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And would so, had it been a carbuncle</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of Phoebus' wheel, and might so safely, had it</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Been all the worth of's car. Away to Britain</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Post I in this design: well may you, sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Remember me at court; where I was taught</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of your chaste daughter the wide difference</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Twixt amorous and villanous. Being thus quench'd</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of hope, not longing, mine Italian brain</span>
									<br/>
									<span>'Gan in your duller Britain operate</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Most vilely; for my vantage, excellent:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And, to be brief, my practise so prevail'd,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That I return'd with simular proof enough</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To make the noble Leonatus mad,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By wounding his belief in her renown</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With tokens thus, and thus; averting notes</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of chamber-hanging, pictures, this her bracelet,--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O cunning, how I got it!--nay, some marks</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of secret on her person, that he could not</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But think her bond of chastity quite crack'd,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I having ta'en the forfeit. Whereupon--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Methinks, I see him now--</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Advancing</i> Ay, so thou dost,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Italian fiend! Ay me, most credulous fool,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Egregious murderer, thief, any thing</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That's due to all the villains past, in being,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To come! O, give me cord, or knife, or poison,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Some upright justicer! Thou, king, send out</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For torturers ingenious: it is I</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That all the abhorred things o' the earth amend</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By being worse than they. I am Posthumus,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That kill'd thy daughter:--villain-like, I lie--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That caused a lesser villain than myself,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A sacrilegious thief, to do't: the temple</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of virtue was she; yea, and she herself.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Spit, and throw stone s, cast mire upon me, set</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The dogs o' the street to bay me: every villain</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be call'd Posthumus Leonitus; and</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be villany less than 'twas! O Imogen!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My queen, my life, my wife! O Imogen,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Imogen, Imogen!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IMOGEN</td>
							<td>Peace, my lord; hear, hear--</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Shall's have a play of this? Thou scornful page,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>There lie thy part. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Striking her: she falls</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PISANIO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, gentlemen, help!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Mine and your mistress! O, my lord Posthumus!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You ne'er kill'd Imogen til now. Help, help!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Mine honour'd lady!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td>Does the world go round?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td>How come these staggers on me?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PISANIO</td>
							<td>Wake, my mistress!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>If this be so, the gods do mean to strike me</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To death with mortal joy.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PISANIO</td>
							<td>How fares thy mistress?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IMOGEN</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, get thee from my sight;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou gavest me poison: dangerous fellow, hence!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Breathe not where princes are.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td>The tune of Imogen!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PISANIO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Lady,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The gods throw stones of sulphur on me, if</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That box I gave you was not thought by me</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A precious thing: I had it from the queen.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td>New matter still?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IMOGEN</td>
							<td>It poison'd me.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CORNELIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O gods!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I left out one thing which the queen confess'd.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which must approve thee honest: 'If Pisanio</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have,' said she, 'given his mistress that confection</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which I gave him for cordial, she is served</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As I would serve a rat.'</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td>What's this, Comelius?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CORNELIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The queen, sir, very oft importuned me</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To temper poisons for her, still pretending</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The satisfaction of her knowledge only</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In killing creatures vile, as cats and dogs,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of no esteem: I, dreading that her purpose</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Was of more danger, did compound for her</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A certain stuff, which, being ta'en, would cease</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The present power of life, but in short time</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All offices of nature should again</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Do their due functions. Have you ta'en of it?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IMOGEN</td>
							<td>Most like I did, for I was dead.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BELARIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>My boys,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>There was our error.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GUIDERIUS</td>
							<td>This is, sure, Fidele.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IMOGEN</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Why did you throw your wedded lady from you?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Think that you are upon a rock; and now</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Throw me again. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Embracing him</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Hang there like a fruit, my soul,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Till the tree die!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>How now, my flesh, my child!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What, makest thou me a dullard in this act?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wilt thou not speak to me?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IMOGEN</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Kneeling</i> Your blessing, sir.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BELARIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To GUIDERIUS and ARVIRAGUS</i> Though you did love this youth, I blame ye not:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You had a motive for't.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>My tears that fall</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Prove holy water on thee! Imogen,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thy mother's dead.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IMOGEN</td>
							<td>I am sorry for't, my lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, she was nought; and long of her it was</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That we meet here so strangely: but her son</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is gone, we know not how nor where.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">PISANIO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>My lord,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Now fear is from me, I'll speak troth. Lord Cloten,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon my lady's missing, came to me</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With his sword drawn; foam'd at the mouth, and swore,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If I discover'd not which way she was gone,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It was my instant death. By accident,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>had a feigned letter of my master's</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Then in my pocket; which directed him</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To seek her on the mountains near to Milford;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where, in a frenzy, in my master's garments,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which he enforced from me, away he posts</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With unchaste purpose and with oath to violate</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My lady's honour: what became of him</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I further know not.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GUIDERIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Let me end the story:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I slew him there.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Marry, the gods forfend!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I would not thy good deeds should from my lips</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Pluck a bard sentence: prithee, valiant youth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Deny't again.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GUIDERIUS</td>
							<td>I have spoke it, and I did it.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td>He was a prince.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GUIDERIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A most incivil one: the wrongs he did me</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Were nothing prince-like; for he did provoke me</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With language that would make me spurn the sea,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If it could so roar to me: I cut off's head;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And am right glad he is not standing here</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To tell this tale of mine.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I am sorry for thee:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By thine own tongue thou art condemn'd, and must</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Endure our law: thou'rt dead.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IMOGEN</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>That headless man</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I thought had been my lord.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Bind the offender,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And take him from our presence.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BELARIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Stay, sir king:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This man is better than the man he slew,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As well descended as thyself; and hath</span>
									<br/>
									<span>More of thee merited than a band of Clotens</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Had ever scar for. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To the Guard</i> Let his arms alone;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>They were not born for bondage.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Why, old soldier,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wilt thou undo the worth thou art unpaid for,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By tasting of our wrath? How of descent</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As good as we?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ARVIRAGUS</td>
							<td>In that he spake too far.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td>And thou shalt die for't.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BELARIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>We will die all three:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But I will prove that two on's are as good</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As I have given out him. My sons, I must,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For mine own part, unfold a dangerous speech,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Though, haply, well for you.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ARVIRAGUS</td>
							<td>Your danger's ours.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GUIDERIUS</td>
							<td>And our good his.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BELARIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Have at it then, by leave.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou hadst, great king, a subject who</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Was call'd Belarius.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>What of him? he is</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A banish'd traitor.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BELARIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He it is that hath</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Assumed this age; indeed a banish'd man;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I know not how a traitor.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Take him hence:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The whole world shall not save him.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BELARIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Not too hot:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>First pay me for the nursing of thy sons;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And let it be confiscate all, so soon</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As I have received it.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td>Nursing of my sons!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BELARIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I am too blunt and saucy: here's my knee:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ere I arise, I will prefer my sons;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Then spare not the old father. Mighty sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>These two young gentlemen, that call me father</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And think they are my sons, are none of mine;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>They are the issue of your loins, my liege,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And blood of your begetting.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td>How! my issue!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BELARIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>So sure as you your father's. I, old Morgan,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Am that Belarius whom you sometime banish'd:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your pleasure was my mere offence, my punishment</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Itself, and all my treason; that I suffer'd</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Was all the harm I did. These gentle princes--</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For such and so they are--these twenty years</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have I train'd up: those arts they have as I</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Could put into them; my breeding was, sir, as</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your highness knows. Their nurse, Euriphile,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whom for the theft I wedded, stole these children</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon my banishment: I moved her to't,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Having received the punishment before,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For that which I did then: beaten for loyalty</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Excited me to treason: their dear loss,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The more of you 'twas felt, the more it shaped</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Unto my end of stealing them. But, gracious sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Here are your sons again; and I must lose</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Two of the sweet'st companions in the world.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The benediction of these covering heavens</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Fall on their heads like dew! for they are worthy</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To inlay heaven with stars.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Thou weep'st, and speak'st.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The service that you three have done is more</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Unlike than this thou tell'st. I lost my children:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If these be they, I know not how to wish</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A pair of worthier sons.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BELARIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Be pleased awhile.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This gentleman, whom I call Polydore,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Most worthy prince, as yours, is true Guiderius:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This gentleman, my Cadwal, Arviragus,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your younger princely son; he, sir, was lapp'd</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In a most curious mantle, wrought by the hand</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of his queen mother, which for more probation</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I can with ease produce.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Guiderius had</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Upon his neck a mole, a sanguine star;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It was a mark of wonder.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">BELARIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>This is he;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who hath upon him still that natural stamp:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It was wise nature's end in the donation,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To be his evidence now.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, what, am I</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A mother to the birth of three? Ne'er mother</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Rejoiced deliverance more. Blest pray you be,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That, after this strange starting from your orbs,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>may reign in them now! O Imogen,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou hast lost by this a kingdom.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IMOGEN</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>No, my lord;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I have got two worlds by 't. O my gentle brothers,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have we thus met? O, never say hereafter</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But I am truest speaker you call'd me brother,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When I was but your sister; I you brothers,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When ye were so indeed.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td>Did you e'er meet?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ARVIRAGUS</td>
							<td>Ay, my good lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">GUIDERIUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And at first meeting loved;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Continued so, until we thought he died.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CORNELIUS</td>
							<td>By the queen's dram she swallow'd.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O rare instinct!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When shall I hear all through? This fierce abridgement</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath to it circumstantial branches, which</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Distinction should be rich in. Where? how lived You?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And when came you to serve our Roman captive?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How parted with your brothers? how first met them?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Why fled you from the court? and whither? These,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And your three motives to the battle, with</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I know not how much more, should be demanded;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And all the other by-dependencies,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From chance to chance: but nor the time nor place</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will serve our long inter'gatories. See,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Posthumus anchors upon Imogen,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And she, like harmless lightning, throws her eye</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On him, her brother, me, her master, hitting</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Each object with a joy: the counterchange</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is severally in all. Let's quit this ground,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And smoke the temple with our sacrifices. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To BELARIUS</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou art my brother; so we'll hold thee ever.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IMOGEN</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>You are my father too, and did relieve me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To see this gracious season.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>All o'erjoy'd,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Save these in bonds: let them be joyful too,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For they shall taste our comfort.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IMOGEN</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>My good master,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I will yet do you service.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CAIUS LUCIUS</td>
							<td>Happy be you!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The forlorn soldier, that so nobly fought,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He would have well becomed this place, and graced</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The thankings of a king.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I am, sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The soldier that did company these three</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In poor beseeming; 'twas a fitment for</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The purpose I then follow'd. That I was he,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Speak, Iachimo: I had you down and might</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have made you finish.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">IACHIMO</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Kneeling</i> I am down again:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But now my heavy conscience sinks my knee,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As then your force did. Take that life, beseech you,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which I so often owe: but your ring first;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And here the bracelet of the truest princess</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That ever swore her faith.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Kneel not to me:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The power that I have on you is, to spare you;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The malice towards you to forgive you: live,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And deal with others better.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Nobly doom'd!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We'll learn our freeness of a son-in-law;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Pardon's the word to all.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">ARVIRAGUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>You holp us, sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As you did mean indeed to be our brother;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Joy'd are we that you are.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">POSTHUMUS LEONATUS</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Your servant, princes. Good my lord of Rome,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Call forth your soothsayer: as I slept, methought</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Great Jupiter, upon his eagle back'd,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Appear'd to me, with other spritely shows</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of mine own kindred: when I waked, I found</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This label on my bosom; whose containing</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is so from sense in hardness, that I can</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Make no collection of it: let him show</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His skill in the construction.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CAIUS LUCIUS</td>
							<td>Philarmonus!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Soothsayer</td>
							<td>Here, my good lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CAIUS LUCIUS</td>
							<td>Read, and declare the meaning.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Soothsayer</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Reads</i> 'When as a lion's whelp shall, to himself unknown, without seeking find, and be embraced by a piece of tender air; and when from a stately cedar shall be lopped branches, which, being dead many years, shall after revive, be jointed to the old stock, and freshly grow; then shall Posthumus end his miseries, Britain be fortunate and flourish in peace and plenty.'</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou, Leonatus, art the lion's whelp;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The fit and apt construction of thy name,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Being Leonatus, doth import so much. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To CYMBELINE</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>The piece of tender air, thy virtuous daughter,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which we call 'mollis aer;' and 'mollis aer'</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We term it 'mulier:' which 'mulier' I divine</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is this most constant wife; who, even now,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Answering the letter of the oracle,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Unknown to you, unsought, were clipp'd about</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With this most tender air.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td>This hath some seeming.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Soothsayer</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The lofty cedar, royal Cymbeline,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Personates thee: and thy lopp'd branches point</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thy two sons forth; who, by Belarius stol'n,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For many years thought dead, are now revived,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To the majestic cedar join'd, whose issue</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Promises Britain peace and plenty.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Well</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My peace we will begin. And, Caius Lucius,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Although the victor, we submit to Caesar,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And to the Roman empire; promising</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To pay our wonted tribute, from the which</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We were dissuaded by our wicked queen;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Whom heavens, in justice, both on her and hers,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have laid most heavy hand.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Soothsayer</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The fingers of the powers above do tune</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The harmony of this peace. The vision</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which I made known to Lucius, ere the stroke</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of this yet scarce-cold battle, at this instant</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is full accomplish'd; for the Roman eagle,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From south to west on wing soaring aloft,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Lessen'd herself, and in the beams o' the sun</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So vanish'd: which foreshow'd our princely eagle,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The imperial Caesar, should again unite</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His favour with the radiant Cymbeline,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which shines here in the west.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">CYMBELINE</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Laud we the gods;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And let our crooked smokes climb to their nostrils</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From our blest altars. Publish we this peace</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To all our subjects. Set we forward: let</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A Roman and a British ensign wave</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Friendly together: so through Lud's-town march:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And in the temple of great Jupiter</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Our peace we'll ratify; seal it with feasts.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Set on there! Never was a war did cease,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ere bloody hands were wash'd, with such a peace. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
