<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Act II</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="act-2" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
			</h2>
			<section id="scene-2-1" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Britain. Before <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cymbeline’s</b> palace.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</b> and two <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lords</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>Was there ever man had such luck! when I kissed the jack, upon an up-cast to be hit away! I had a hundred pound on’t: and then a whoreson jackanapes must take me up for swearing; as if I borrowed mine oaths of him and might not spend them at my pleasure.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Lord</td>
							<td>What got he by that? You have broke his pate with your bowl.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Lord</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> If his wit had been like him that broke it, it would have run all out.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>When a gentleman is disposed to swear, it is not for any standers-by to curtail his oaths, ha?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Lord</td>
							<td>No my lord; <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">aside</i> nor crop the ears of them.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>Whoreson dog! I give him satisfaction? Would he had been one of my rank!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Lord</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> To have smelt like a fool.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>I am not vexed more at any thing in the earth: a pox on’t! I had rather not be so noble as I am; they dare not fight with me, because of the queen my mother: every Jack-slave hath his bellyful of fighting, and I must go up and down like a cock that nobody can match.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Lord</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> You are cock and capon too; and you crow, cock, with your comb on.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>Sayest thou?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Lord</td>
							<td>It is not fit your lordship should undertake every companion that you give offence to.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>No, I know that: but it is fit I should commit offence to my inferiors.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Lord</td>
							<td>Ay, it is fit for your lordship only.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>Why, so I say.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Lord</td>
							<td>Did you hear of a stranger that’s come to court to-night?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>A stranger, and I not know on’t!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Lord</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> He’s a strange fellow himself, and knows it not.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Lord</td>
							<td>There’s an Italian come; and, ’tis thought, one of Leonatus’ friends.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>Leonatus! a banished rascal; and he’s another, whatsoever he be. Who told you of this stranger?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Lord</td>
							<td>One of your lordship’s pages.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>Is it fit I went to look upon him? is there no derogation in’t?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Lord</td>
							<td>You cannot derogate, my lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>Not easily, I think.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Lord</td>
							<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Aside.</i> You are a fool granted; therefore your issues, being foolish, do not derogate.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>Come, I’ll go see this Italian: what I have lost to-day at bowls I’ll win to-night of him. Come, go.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Lord</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I’ll attend your lordship. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">First Lord</b>.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>That such a crafty devil as is his mother</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Should yield the world this ass! a woman that</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Bears all down with her brain; and this her son</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Cannot take two from twenty, for his heart,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And leave eighteen. Alas, poor princess,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou divine Imogen, what thou endurest,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Betwixt a father by thy step-dame govern’d,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A mother hourly coining plots, a wooer</span>
									<br/>
									<span>More hateful than the foul expulsion is</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of thy dear husband, than that horrid act</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of the divorce he’ld make! The heavens hold firm</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The walls of thy dear honour, keep unshaked</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That temple, thy fair mind, that thou mayst stand,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To enjoy thy banish’d lord and this great land! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-2-2" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</span>
				</h3>
				<p><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen’s</b> bedchamber in <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cymbeline’s</b> palace: a trunk in one corner of it.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen</b> in bed, reading; a <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady</b> attending.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen</td>
							<td>Who’s there? my woman Helen?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady</td>
							<td>Please you, madam</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen</td>
							<td>What hour is it?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady</td>
							<td>Almost midnight, madam.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I have read three hours then: mine eyes are weak:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Fold down the leaf where I have left: to bed:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Take not away the taper, leave it burning;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And if thou canst awake by four o’ the clock,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I prithee, call me. Sleep hath seized me wholly. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady</b>.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>To your protection I commend me, gods.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>From fairies and the tempters of the night</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Guard me, beseech ye. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sleeps. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</b> comes from the trunk.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The crickets sing, and man’s o’er-labour’d sense</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Repairs itself by rest. Our Tarquin thus</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Did softly press the rushes, ere he waken’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The chastity he wounded. Cytherea,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How bravely thou becomest thy bed, fresh lily,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And whiter than the sheets! That I might touch!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But kiss; one kiss! Rubies unparagon’d,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>How dearly they do’t! ’Tis her breathing that</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Perfumes the chamber thus: the flame o’ the taper</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Bows toward her, and would under-peep her lids,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To see the enclosed lights, now canopied</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Under these windows, white and azure laced</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With blue of heaven’s own tinct. But my design,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To note the chamber: I will write all down:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Such and such pictures; there the window; such</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The adornment of her bed; the arras; figures,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Why, such and such; and the contents o’ the story.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ah, but some natural notes about her body,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Above ten thousand meaner moveables</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Would testify, to enrich mine inventory.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O sleep, thou ape of death, lie dull upon her!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And be her sense but as a monument,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thus in a chapel lying! Come off, come off: <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Taking off her bracelet.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>As slippery as the Gordian knot was hard!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>’Tis mine; and this will witness outwardly,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As strongly as the conscience does within,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To the madding of her lord. On her left breast</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A mole cinque-spotted, like the crimson drops</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I’ the bottom of a cowslip: here’s a voucher,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Stronger than ever law could make: this secret</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will force him think I have pick’d the lock and ta’en</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The treasure of her honour. No more. To what end?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Why should I write this down, that’s riveted,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Screw’d to my memory? She hath been reading late</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The tale of Tereus; here the leaf’s turn’d down</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where Philomel gave up. I have enough:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To the trunk again, and shut the spring of it.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Swift, swift, you dragons of the night, that dawning</span>
									<br/>
									<span>May bare the raven’s eye! I lodge in fear;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Though this a heavenly angel, hell is here. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Clock strikes.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>One, two, three: time, time! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Goes into the trunk. The scene closes.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-2-3" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
				</h3>
				<p>An ante-chamber adjoining <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen’s</b> apartments.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lords</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Lord</td>
							<td>Your lordship is the most patient man in loss, the most coldest that ever turned up ace.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>It would make any man cold to lose.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Lord</td>
							<td>But not every man patient after the noble temper of your lordship. You are most hot and furious when you win.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>Winning will put any man into courage. If I could get this foolish Imogen, I should have gold enough. It’s almost morning, is’t not?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">First Lord</td>
							<td>Day, my lord.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>I would this music would come: I am advised to give her music o’ mornings; they say it will penetrate.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Musicians.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>Come on; tune: if you can penetrate her with your fingering, so; we’ll try with tongue too: if none will do, let her remain; but I’ll never give o’er. First, a very excellent good-conceited thing; after, a wonderful sweet air, with admirable rich words to it: and then let her consider.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Song.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td epub:type="z3998:song">
								<p>
									<span>Hark, hark! the lark at heaven’s gate sings,</span>
									<br/>
									<span class="i1">And Phoebus ’gins arise,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His steeds to water at those springs</span>
									<br/>
									<span class="i1">On chaliced flowers that lies;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And winking Mary-buds begin</span>
									<br/>
									<span class="i1">To ope their golden eyes:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With every thing that pretty is,</span>
									<br/>
									<span class="i1">My lady sweet, arise:</span>
									<br/>
									<span class="i2">Arise, arise.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>So, get you gone. If this penetrate, I will consider your music the better: if it do not, it is a vice in her ears, which horse-hairs and calves’-guts, nor the voice of unpaved eunuch to boot, can never amend. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt Musicians.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Second Lord</td>
							<td>Here comes the king.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>I am glad I was up so late; for that’s the reason I was up so early: he cannot choose but take this service I have done fatherly.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cymbeline</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Queen</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>Good morrow to your majesty and to my gracious mother.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cymbeline</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Attend you here the door of our stern daughter?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will she not forth?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>I have assailed her with music, but she vouchsafes no notice.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cymbeline</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The exile of her minion is too new;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>She hath not yet forgot him: some more time</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Must wear the print of his remembrance out,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And then she’s yours.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Queen</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>You are most bound to the king,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who lets go by no vantages that may</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Prefer you to his daughter. Frame yourself</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To orderly soliciting, and be friended</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With aptness of the season; make denials</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Increase your services; so seem as if</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You were inspired to do those duties which</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You tender to her; that you in all obey her,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Save when command to your dismission tends,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And therein you are senseless.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>Senseless! not so.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter a <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Messenger</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Messenger</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>So like you, sir, ambassadors from Rome;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The one is Caius Lucius.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cymbeline</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>A worthy fellow,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Albeit he comes on angry purpose now;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But that’s no fault of his: we must receive him</span>
									<br/>
									<span>According to the honour of his sender;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And towards himself, his goodness forespent on us,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We must extend our notice. Our dear son,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When you have given good morning to your mistress,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Attend the queen and us; we shall have need</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To employ you towards this Roman. Come, our queen. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt all but <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</b>.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>If she be up, I’ll speak with her; if not,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let her lie still and dream. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Knocks.</i> By your leave, ho!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I Know her women are about her: what</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If I do line one of their hands? ’Tis gold</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which buys admittance; oft it doth; yea, and makes</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Diana’s rangers false themselves, yield up</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Their deer to the stand o’ the stealer; and ’tis gold</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which makes the true man kill’d and saves the thief;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nay, sometime hangs both thief and true man: what</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Can it not do and undo? I will make</span>
									<br/>
									<span>One of her women lawyer to me, for</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I yet not understand the case myself.</span>
									<br/>
									<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Knocks.</i> By your leave.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter a <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady</td>
							<td>Who’s there that knocks?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>A gentleman.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady</td>
							<td>No more?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>Yes, and a gentlewoman’s son.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>That’s more</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than some, whose tailors are as dear as yours,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Can justly boast of. What’s your lordship’s pleasure?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>Your lady’s person: is she ready?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Ay,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To keep her chamber.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>There is gold for you;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sell me your good report.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>How! my good name? or to report of you</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What I shall think is good?⁠—The princess!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>Good morrow, fairest: sister, your sweet hand. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Lady</b>.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Good morrow, sir. You lay out too much pains</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For purchasing but trouble: the thanks I give</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is telling you that I am poor of thanks</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And scarce can spare them.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>Still, I swear I love you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>If you but said so, ’twere as deep with me:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If you swear still, your recompense is still</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That I regard it not.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>This is no answer.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>But that you shall not say I yield being silent,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I would not speak. I pray you, spare me: ’faith,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I shall unfold equal discourtesy</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To your best kindness: one of your great knowing</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Should learn, being taught, forbearance.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>To leave you in your madness, ’twere my sin:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I will not.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen</td>
							<td>Fools are not mad folks.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>Do you call me fool?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>As I am mad, I do:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If you’ll be patient, I’ll no more be mad;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That cures us both. I am much sorry, sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You put me to forget a lady’s manners,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By being so verbal: and learn now, for all,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That I, which know my heart, do here pronounce,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By the very truth of it, I care not for you,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And am so near the lack of charity⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To accuse myself⁠—I hate you; which I had rather</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You felt than make’t my boast.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>You sin against</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Obedience, which you owe your father. For</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The contract you pretend with that base wretch,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>One bred of alms and foster’d with cold dishes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With scraps o’ the court, it is no contract, none:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And though it be allow’d in meaner parties⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet who than he more mean?⁠—to knit their souls,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>On whom there is no more dependency</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But brats and beggary, in self-figured knot;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Yet you are curb’d from that enlargement by</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The consequence o’ the crown, and must not soil</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The precious note of it with a base slave,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A hilding for a livery, a squire’s cloth,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A pantler, not so eminent.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Profane fellow</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Wert thou the son of Jupiter and no more</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But what thou art besides, thou wert too base</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To be his groom: thou wert dignified enough,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Even to the point of envy, if ’twere made</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Comparative for your virtues, to be styled</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The under-hangman of his kingdom, and hated</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For being preferr’d so well.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>The south-fog rot him!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He never can meet more mischance than come</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To be but named of thee. His meanest garment,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That ever hath but clipp’d his body, is dearer</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In my respect than all the hairs above thee,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Were they all made such men. How now, Pisanio!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Pisanio</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>“His garment!” Now the devil⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen</td>
							<td>To Dorothy my woman hie thee presently⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>“His garment!”</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I am sprited with a fool.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Frighted, and anger’d worse: go bid my woman</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Search for a jewel that too casually</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath left mine arm: it was thy master’s: ’shrew me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If I would lose it for a revenue</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of any king’s in Europe. I do think</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I saw’t this morning: confident I am</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Last night ’twas on mine arm; I kiss’d it:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I hope it be not gone to tell my lord</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That I kiss aught but he.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pisanio</td>
							<td>’Twill not be lost.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen</td>
							<td>I hope so: go and search. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Pisanio</b>.</i></td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>You have abused me:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>“His meanest garment!”</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Ay, I said so, sir:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If you will make’t an action, call witness to’t.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td>I will inform your father.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Imogen</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Your mother too:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>She’s my good lady, and will conceive, I hope,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But the worst of me. So, I leave you, sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To the worst of discontent. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cloten</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I’ll be revenged:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>“His meanest garment!” Well. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-2-4" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Rome. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Philario’s</b> house.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Philario</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Fear it not, sir: I would I were so sure</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To win the king as I am bold her honour</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will remain hers.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Philario</td>
							<td>What means do you make to him?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Not any, but abide the change of time,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Quake in the present winter’s state and wish</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That warmer days would come: in these sear’d hopes,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I barely gratify your love; they failing,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I must die much your debtor.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Philario</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Your very goodness and your company</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O’erpays all I can do. By this, your king</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath heard of great Augustus: Caius Lucius</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Will do’s commission throughly: and I think</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He’ll grant the tribute, send the arrearages,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or look upon our Romans, whose remembrance</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is yet fresh in their grief.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I do believe,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Statist though I am none, nor like to be,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That this will prove a war; and you shall hear</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The legions now in Gallia sooner landed</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In our not-fearing Britain than have tidings</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of any penny tribute paid. Our countrymen</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Are men more order’d than when Julius Caesar</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Smiled at their lack of skill, but found their courage</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Worthy his frowning at: their discipline,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Now mingled with their courages, will make known</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To their approvers they are people such</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That mend upon the world.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Philario</td>
							<td>See! Iachimo!</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The swiftest harts have posted you by land;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And winds of all the comers kiss’d your sails,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To make your vessel nimble.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Philario</td>
							<td>Welcome, sir.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I hope the briefness of your answer made</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The speediness of your return.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Your lady</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is one of the fairest that I have look’d upon.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>And therewithal the best; or let her beauty</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Look through a casement to allure false hearts</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And be false with them.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td>Here are letters for you.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td>Their tenour good, I trust.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td>’Tis very like.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Philario</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Was Caius Lucius in the Britain court</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When you were there?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>He was expected then,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But not approach’d.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>All is well yet.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sparkles this stone as it was wont? or is’t not</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Too dull for your good wearing?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>If I had lost it,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I should have lost the worth of it in gold.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I’ll make a journey twice as far, to enjoy</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A second night of such sweet shortness which</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Was mine in Britain, for the ring is won.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td>The stone’s too hard to come by.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Not a whit,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your lady being so easy.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Make not, sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your loss your sport: I hope you know that we</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Must not continue friends.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Good sir, we must,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If you keep covenant. Had I not brought</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The knowledge of your mistress home, I grant</span>
									<br/>
									<span>We were to question further: but I now</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Profess myself the winner of her honour,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Together with your ring; and not the wronger</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of her or you, having proceeded but</span>
									<br/>
									<span>By both your wills.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>If you can make’t apparent</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That you have tasted her in bed, my hand</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And ring is yours; if not, the foul opinion</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You had of her pure honour gains or loses</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Your sword or mine, or masterless leaves both</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To who shall find them.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Sir, my circumstances,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Being so near the truth as I will make them,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Must first induce you to believe: whose strength</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I will confirm with oath; which, I doubt not,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You’ll give me leave to spare, when you shall find</span>
									<br/>
									<span>You need it not.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td>Proceed.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>First, her bedchamber⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where, I confess, I slept not, but profess</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Had that was well worth watching⁠—it was hang’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With tapesty of silk and silver; the story</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Proud Cleopatra, when she met her Roman,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And Cydnus swell’d above the banks, or for</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The press of boats or pride: a piece of work</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So bravely done, so rich, that it did strive</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In workmanship and value; which I wonder’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Could be so rarely and exactly wrought,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Since the true life on’t was⁠—</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>This is true;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And this you might have heard of here, by me,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or by some other.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>More particulars</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Must justify my knowledge.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>So they must,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or do your honour injury.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The chimney</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is south the chamber, and the chimney-piece</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Chaste Dian bathing: never saw I figures</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So likely to report themselves: the cutter</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Was as another nature, dumb; outwent her,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Motion and breath left out.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>This is a thing</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which you might from relation likewise reap,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Being, as it is, much spoke of.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>The roof o’ the chamber</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With golden cherubins is fretted: her andirons⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I had forgot them⁠—were two winking Cupids</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of silver, each on one foot standing, nicely</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Depending on their brands.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>This is her honour!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let it be granted you have seen all this⁠—and praise</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be given to your remembrance⁠—the description</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of what is in her chamber nothing saves</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The wager you have laid.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Then, if you can, <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Showing the bracelet.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>Be pale: I beg but leave to air this jewel; see!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And now ’tis up again: it must be married</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To that your diamond; I’ll keep them.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Jove!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Once more let me behold it: is it that</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Which I left with her?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Sir⁠—I thank her⁠—that:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>She stripp’d it from her arm; I see her yet;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Her pretty action did outsell her gift,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And yet enrich’d it too: she gave it me, and said</span>
									<br/>
									<span>She prized it once.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>May be she pluck’d it off</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To send it me.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td>She writes so to you, doth she?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, no, no, no! ’tis true. Here, take this too; <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Gives the ring.</i></span>
									<br/>
									<span>It is a basilisk unto mine eye,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Kills me to look on’t. Let there be no honour</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where there is beauty; truth, where semblance; love,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Where there’s another man: the vows of women</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of no more bondage be, to where they are made,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Than they are to their virtues; which is nothing.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>O, above measure false!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Philario</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Have patience, sir,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And take your ring again; ’tis not yet won:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It may be probable she lost it; or</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Who knows if one of her women, being corrupted,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hath stol’n it from her?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Very true;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And so, I hope, he came by’t. Back my ring:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Render to me some corporal sign about her,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>More evident than this; for this was stolen.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td>By Jupiter, I had it from her arm.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Hark you, he swears; by Jupiter he swears.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>’Tis true:⁠—nay, keep the ring⁠—’tis true: I am sure</span>
									<br/>
									<span>She would not lose it: her attendants are</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All sworn and honourable:⁠—they induced to steal it!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And by a stranger!⁠—No, he hath enjoy’d her:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The cognizance of her incontinency</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Is this: she hath bought the name of whore thus dearly.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>There, take thy hire; and all the fiends of hell</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Divide themselves between you!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Philario</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Sir, be patient:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This is not strong enough to be believed</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of one persuaded well of⁠—</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Never talk on’t;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>She hath been colted by him.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>If you seek</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For further satisfying, under her breast⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Worthy the pressing⁠—lies a mole, right proud</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Of that most delicate lodging: by my life,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I kiss’d it; and it gave me present hunger</span>
									<br/>
									<span>To feed again, though full. You do remember</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This stain upon her?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Ay, and it doth confirm</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Another stain, as big as hell can hold,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Were there no more but it.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td>Will you hear more?</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Spare your arithmetic: never count the turns;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Once, and a million!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td>I’ll be sworn⁠—</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>No swearing.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>If you will swear you have not done’t, you lie;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And I will kill thee, if thou dost deny</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Thou’st made me cuckold.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td>I’ll deny nothing.</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>O, that I had her here, to tear her limb-meal!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I will go there and do’t, i’ the court, before</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Her father. I’ll do something⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Philario</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Quite besides</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The government of patience! You have won:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Let’s follow him, and pervert the present wrath</span>
									<br/>
									<span>He hath against himself.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Iachimo</td>
							<td>With an my heart. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt.</i></td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
			<section id="scene-2-5" epub:type="z3998:scene">
				<h3>
					<span epub:type="label">Scene</span>
					<span epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</span>
				</h3>
				<p>Another room in <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Philario’s</b> house.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td/>
							<td>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</b>.</i>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Posthumus</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Is there no way for men to be but women</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Must be half-workers? We are all bastards;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And that most venerable man which I</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Did call my father, was I know not where</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When I was stamp’d; some coiner with his tools</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Made me a counterfeit: yet my mother seem’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The Dian of that time: so doth my wife</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The nonpareil of this. O, vengeance, vengeance!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Me of my lawful pleasure she restrain’d</span>
									<br/>
									<span>And pray’d me oft forbearance; did it with</span>
									<br/>
									<span>A pudency so rosy the sweet view on’t</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Might well have warm’d old Saturn; that I thought her</span>
									<br/>
									<span>As chaste as unsunn’d snow. O, all the devils!</span>
									<br/>
									<span>This yellow Iachimo, in an hour⁠—was’t not?⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Or less⁠—at first?⁠—perchance he spoke not, but,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Like a full-acorn’d boar, a German one,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Cried “O!” and mounted; found no opposition</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But what he look’d for should oppose and she</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Should from encounter guard. Could I find out</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The woman’s part in me! For there’s no motion</span>
									<br/>
									<span>That tends to vice in man, but I affirm</span>
									<br/>
									<span>It is the woman’s part: be it lying, note it,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The woman’s; flattering, hers; deceiving, hers;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Lust and rank thoughts, hers, hers; revenges, hers;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ambitions, covetings, change of prides, disdain,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Nice longing, slanders, mutability,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All faults that may be named, nay, that hell knows,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Why, hers, in part or all; but rather, all;</span>
									<br/>
									<span>For even to vice</span>
									<br/>
									<span>They are not constant, but are changing still</span>
									<br/>
									<span>One vice, but of a minute old, for one</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Not half so old as that. I’ll write against them,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Detest them, curse them: yet ’tis greater skill</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In a true hate, to pray they have their will:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>The very devils cannot plague them better. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit.</i></span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</section>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
